Thesis : Table of Contents
Declaration – 
Approval – 
Acknowledgements – 
Abstract – 
List of Tables – 
List of Figures – 

Chapter 1: Introduction 
1.1 Prelude 
1.2.Problem Statement  
1.3 Rationale of the Study 
1.4 Objective of The Study 
1.5 Research Question
1.6 Research Hypothesis
1.7 Applied Computer Software 
1.8 Organization of the Study 

Chapter 2: Literature Review 
2.1 Identifying and Defining Concepts,variables
Identifying and justifying theory
Operationalizing concepts
Establishing conceptual and/or Analytical framework
Identifying literature/research gap- at least one unanswered question 


Chapter 3: Methodology 
3.1 Introduction 
3.2 Study Design and Methodology 
3.3 Study Area and Period 
3.4 Sampling Method and Size 
3.5 Data Collection 
3.6 Operationalization of Variables 
 3.6.1 Independent Variables 
 3.6.2 Demographic Characteristics
 3.6.3 Media Consumption Variables 
 3.6.4 Dependent Variables 
 3.6.5 Cultural Diversity 
 3.6.6 Positive and Negative Effects of Media 
 3.6.7 Coded and Recoded Variables 
3.7 Data Analysis and Presentation 
3.8 Ethical Considerations 

Chapter 4: Findings and Analysis (Quantitative) –
4.1 Introduction 
4.2 Quantitative Analysis of Survey Data 
4.3 Demographic Characteristics of the Study Participants


Chapter 5: Qualitative Analysis
5.1 Introduction 
5.2 Introduce with Respondents 
5.3 Thematic Analysis 

Chapter 6: Discussion and Conclusion 
6.1 Introduction 
6.2 Test of Research Hypothesis 
6.3 Analysis Based on Research Objectives 
6.4 Theoretical Implications 
6.5 Conclusion 
6.6 Recommendations 
6.7 Limitations of the Study

References 
Appendix A: Questionnaire

1.2 Problem Statement
Public service delivery increasingly relies on digital platforms, yet citizens continue to face administrative burden—the learning, compliance, and psychological costs closely associated with accessing government services. Administrative burden is now well established as a central feature of citizen–state interactions, shaping access, equity, and user experience (Moynihan, Herd, & Harvey, 2014; Heinrich, 2016).  Evidence from studies on Bangladesh shows that e-service delivery, especially at the local government level, has increased access and citizen satisfaction. This is particularly seen through Union Digital Centers and online portals (Khadiza & Ullah, 2020; Ferdous et al., 2022). Study of a specific service like the e-passport system also shows moderate to high satisfaction attached to timeliness and transparency (Siddika et al., 2024). A close point made in the literature is that digitalization may replicate but could also aggravate administrator burdens, especially for citizens lacking sufficient digital knowledge or means, generating new learning and psychological costs (Heggertveit et al., 2022). This tension indicates that e-services hold the potential to reduce a burden but are neither automatic nor uniform.
What is insufficiently understood is how and to what extent e-service delivery reduces administrative burden in local governments like Hathazari Upazila. Also whether this reduction explains improvement in citizen satisfaction.  Studies conducted in Bangladesh-focused mostly assess satisfaction outcomes. Do not see administrative burden as explanatory mechanisms according to Khadiza & Ullah (2020) and Ferdous et al. (2022). In addition, the evidence for Hathazari Upazila is limited. Thus, citizen experiences of learning, compliance, and psychological costs are unexplored.
Considering the digital governance of Bangladesh is still expanding, while the national e-government readiness is gradually improving (LightCastle Partners, 2025; Network Readiness Index, 2026), administrative burden is unlikely to be reduced to zero. Rather, it may stay in digital forms instead. If no local-level investigation is done, then the policymakers are likely to assume that there is a burden reduction where it does not fully exist.This study addresses that gap by examining whether and how e-service delivery reduces administrative burden and improves citizen satisfaction in Hathazari Upazila.

1.4 General Objective
To investigate the overall impact of e-service delivery on reducing administrative burdens and enhancing citizen satisfaction in public administration.
Specific Objectives
To assess how e-service reduces administrative burden (citizen learning, compliance, and psychological costs).


To determine whether the reduction of administrative  burden mediates the relationship between e-service quality and overall citizen satisfaction



1.5 Research Question
  1. To what extent does e-service delivery reduce administrative burden (learning costs, compliance requirements, and psychological costs) in local government services in Hathazari Upazila?
  2.How does e-service delivery influence administrative efficiency in local government service delivery in Hathazari Upazila ?
  3.What is the relationship between administrative burden and citizen satisfaction in local government services in Hathazari Upazila?
  4.How does reduced administrative burden, resulting from e-service delivery, affect overall citizen satisfaction ?

1.6 Research Hypothesis

H1: E-service delivery has a significant negative effect on administrative burden
H2: Reduced Administrative burden has a positive effect on citizen satisfaction.
H3: E-service delivery has a significant positive effect on citizen satisfaction.
H4: Reduced Administrative burden from the e-service delivery increase citizen satisfaction.

Chapter 2: Literature Review 
2.1 Identifying and Defining Concepts,variables
Identifying and justifying theory
Operationalizing concepts
Establishing conceptual and/or Analytical framework
Identifying literature/research gap- at least one unanswered question

Reference List :
Buckley, J. (2003). E-service quality and the public sector. Managing Service Quality. (F)
Ferdous, J., Islam, M. F., & Das, R. C. (2022). Dynamics of citizens’ satisfaction on e-service delivery in local government institutions in Bangladesh. (F)
Heggertveit, I., Lindgren, I., Madsen, C. Ø., & Hofmann, S. (2022). Administrative burden in digital self-service. (F)
Heinrich, C. J. (2016). The bite of administrative burden. Journal of Public Administration Research and Theory. (F)
Khadiza, N. S., & Ullah, M. N. (2020). E-service delivery of Union Digital Center in rural Bangladesh. International Journal of Social Sciences. (F)
LightCastle Partners. (2025). Bangladesh e-government development strategy. https://lightcastlepartners.com/insights/2025/10/bangladesh-e-government-development-strategy/
Moynihan, D., Herd, P., & Harvey, H. (2014). Administrative burden. Journal of Public Administration Research and Theory. (F)
Network Readiness Index. (2026). Bangladesh country profile. https://networkreadinessindex.org/country/bangladesh/
Siddika, A., et al. (2024). Evaluating people’s satisfaction on e-passport service in Bangladesh.
